009-slides.md, before:

% Writing beautiful and reproducible slides quickly
% Yihui Xie
% 2012/04/30




# Why

- after you finished typing `\documentclass{beamer}` and `\title{}`, I have finished my first slide with markdown
- much less commands to remember, e.g. to write bullet points, just begin with a dash "`-`" instead of `\begin{itemize}` and `\item`; how things can be simpler?
- I know you want math to show you are a statistician, e.g. $f(k)={n \choose k}p^{k}(1-p)^{n-k}$
- you do not need to maintain output -- only maintain a source file
- HTML5/CSS3 is much more fun than LaTeX

# A bit R code


```r
head(cars)
```

```
##   speed dist
## 1     4    2
## 2     4   10
## 3     7    4
## 4     7   22
## 5     8   16
## 6     9   10
```

```r
cor(cars)
```

```
##        speed   dist
## speed 1.0000 0.8069
## dist  0.8069 1.0000
```


# Graphics too


```r
library(ggplot2)
qplot(speed, dist, data = cars) + geom_smooth()
```

![A scatterplot of `cars`](http://animation.r-forge.r-project.org/knitr-ex/figure/009-slides-graphics.png) 


# How

- source editor: [RStudio](http://www.rstudio.org/) (perfect integration with [**knitr**](http://yihui.name/knitr/); one-click compilation); currently you have to use the version >= 0.96.109
- HTML5 slides converter: [pandoc](http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/); this document was generated by: `pandoc -s -S -i -t dzslides --mathjax knitr-slides.md -o knitr-slides.html`
- the file [`knitr-slides.md`](https://github.com/yihui/knitr-examples/blob/master/009-slides.md) is the markdown output from its [source](https://github.com/yihui/knitr-examples/blob/master/009-slides.Rmd): `library(knitr); knit('knitr-slides.Rmd')`
- or simple click the button `Knit HTML` in RStudio

# For ninjas

- you should tweak the default style; why not try some [Google web fonts](http://www.google.com/webfonts)? (think how painful it is to wrestle with fonts in LaTeX)
- pandoc provides 3 types of HTML5 slides (dzslides is one of them)
- you can tweak the default template to get better appearances
- if you have come up with a better dzslides template, please let me know or contribute to pandoc directly (e.g. `pre` blocks should have `max-width` and `max-height`)

# For beamer lovers

- pandoc supports conversion to beamer as well. period.

# For Powerpoint lovers

- ...

# Reproducible research

It is good to include the session info, e.g. this document is produced with **knitr**. Here is my session info:


```r
print(sessionInfo(), locale = FALSE)
```

```
## R version 2.15.2 (2012-10-26)
## Platform: x86_64-pc-linux-gnu (64-bit)
## 
## attached base packages:
## [1] methods   stats     graphics  grDevices utils     datasets  base     
## 
## other attached packages:
## [1] ggplot2_0.9.3 knitr_0.9.2  
## 
## loaded via a namespace (and not attached):
##  [1] colorspace_1.2-0   dichromat_1.2-4    digest_0.6.0      
##  [4] evaluate_0.4.3     formatR_0.7        grid_2.15.2       
##  [7] gtable_0.1.2       labeling_0.1       MASS_7.3-22       
## [10] munsell_0.4        plyr_1.8           proto_0.3-10      
## [13] RColorBrewer_1.0-5 reshape2_1.2.2     scales_0.2.3      
## [16] stringr_0.6.2      tools_2.15.2
```


# Life is short

- so keep your audience awake!

    ![](http://i.imgur.com/qBO9K.jpg)

Commit message:

mention out.width in slides as John Maindonald suggested

009-slides.md, after:

% Writing beautiful and reproducible slides quickly
% Yihui Xie
% 2012/04/30




# Why

- after you finished typing `\documentclass{beamer}` and `\title{}`, I have finished my first slide with markdown
- much less commands to remember, e.g. to write bullet points, just begin with a dash "`-`" instead of `\begin{itemize}` and `\item`; how things can be simpler?
- I know you want math to show you are a statistician, e.g. $f(k)={n \choose k}p^{k}(1-p)^{n-k}$
- you do not need to maintain output -- only maintain a source file
- HTML5/CSS3 is much more fun than LaTeX

# A bit R code


```r
head(cars)
```

```
##   speed dist
## 1     4    2
## 2     4   10
## 3     7    4
## 4     7   22
## 5     8   16
## 6     9   10
```

```r
cor(cars)
```

```
##        speed   dist
## speed 1.0000 0.8069
## dist  0.8069 1.0000
```


# Graphics too


```r
library(ggplot2)
qplot(speed, dist, data = cars) + geom_smooth()
```

![A scatterplot of `cars`](http://animation.r-forge.r-project.org/knitr-ex/figure/009-slides-graphics.png) 


# How

- source editor: [RStudio](http://www.rstudio.org/) (perfect integration with [**knitr**](http://yihui.name/knitr/); one-click compilation); currently you have to use the version >= 0.96.109
- HTML5 slides converter: [pandoc](http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/); this document was generated by: `pandoc -s -S -i -t dzslides --mathjax knitr-slides.md -o knitr-slides.html`
- the file [`knitr-slides.md`](https://github.com/yihui/knitr-examples/blob/master/009-slides.md) is the markdown output from its [source](https://github.com/yihui/knitr-examples/blob/master/009-slides.Rmd): `library(knitr); knit('knitr-slides.Rmd')`
- or simple click the button `Knit HTML` in RStudio

# For ninjas

- you should tweak the default style; why not try some [Google web fonts](http://www.google.com/webfonts)? (think how painful it is to wrestle with fonts in LaTeX)
- pandoc provides 3 types of HTML5 slides (dzslides is one of them)
- you can tweak the default template to get better appearances
- if you have come up with a better dzslides template, please let me know or contribute to pandoc directly (e.g. `pre` blocks should have `max-width` and `max-height`)

# For beamer lovers

- pandoc supports conversion to beamer as well. period.

# For Powerpoint lovers

- ...

# Reproducible research

It is good to include the session info, e.g. this document is produced with **knitr**. Here is my session info:


```r
print(sessionInfo(), locale = FALSE)
```

```
## R version 2.15.2 (2012-10-26)
## Platform: x86_64-pc-linux-gnu (64-bit)
## 
## attached base packages:
## [1] methods   stats     graphics  grDevices utils     datasets  base     
## 
## other attached packages:
## [1] ggplot2_0.9.3 knitr_0.9.2  
## 
## loaded via a namespace (and not attached):
##  [1] colorspace_1.2-0   dichromat_1.2-4    digest_0.6.0      
##  [4] evaluate_0.4.3     formatR_0.7        grid_2.15.2       
##  [7] gtable_0.1.2       labeling_0.1       MASS_7.3-22       
## [10] munsell_0.4        plyr_1.8           proto_0.3-10      
## [13] RColorBrewer_1.0-5 reshape2_1.2.2     scales_0.2.3      
## [16] stringr_0.6.2      tools_2.15.2
```


# Misc issues

- the plots are too wide? use the chunk option `out.width` which will be used in `<img width=... />`, e.g. `out.width=400px`

# Life is short

- so keep your audience awake!

    ![](http://i.imgur.com/qBO9K.jpg)
